.\" man page for libparseurl
.\" Contact dev@hyper-active.com.au to correct errors or omissions. 
.TH url_getprotocol 3 "24 October 2008" "1.0" "libparseurl - Library for extracting info from a given URL."
.SH NAME
url_getprotocol \- return the protocol portion of the URL.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <parseurl.h>
.sp
.B char * url_getprotocol(char *url);
.br
.SH EXAMPLES
#include <parseurl.h>
.sp
char *url = "http://hyper-active.com.au/libparseurl/index.html";
.br
char *host, *path, *file, *protocol;
.br
int port=80;
.sp
host = url_gethost(url);
.br
path = url_getpath(url);
.br
file = url_getfile(url);
.br
protocol = url_getprotocol(url);
.br
port = url_getport(url);
.sp
free(host);
.br
free(path);
.br
free(file);
.br
free(protocol);
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B url_getprotocol()
is used to get the protocol portion out of a URL.   This means that it will return the string at the begining of the URL before the first ':'.   "http://rhokz.com/" will return "http".   It does not return the "://" part.
.sp
If it is able to find it in a valid URL, then it will return a pointer to a string that has been allocated on the heap.  This means that it must be de-allocated (with
.B free
when it is no longer needed).
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libparseurl (3),
.BR url_gethost (3),
.BR url_getpath (3),
.BR url_getfile (3),
.BR url_getport (3)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time. 
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Clint Webb (webb.clint@gmail.com) on behalf of Hyper-Active Systems, Australia.
.br
http://www.hyper-active.com.au/libparseurl/
.fi
.SH HISTORY
Oct 24, 2008 \- Initial v1.0 release made public.
